Good morning.
Thank you for joining me this morning,
bright and early.
My name is Brett Halle.
I'm the Senior Director of
Engineering responsible for
Kernel and Networking Technology.
Today I want to spend a few minutes and
chat with you a little bit about some
of the new features and capabilities
we've put in Lion and iOS 5 as well as
talk about some of the key principles
that you'll need to be thinking about
as you're writing the next great app.
So first I think it's worth
kind of putting ourselves in the
right context that networking
has really been part of the human
experience for quite a while now.
Whether you go back to something
as archaic as the telegraph,
you still dealt with many of the
same challenges and problems.
It still was never fast enough.
You had to deal with compression of data.
You had to deal with data loss.
You had to deal with latency issues
and being charged by the byte.
The problems were very,
very similar then as they are now.
Just the scale has changed.
Certainly networking from the
perspective that we care about
really started in the '70s,
certainly in the creation of
Unix and certainly BSD and
sockets and other things.
There was a lot of technology
that came together at that time,
but it was all based on a model
that was based on the idea of the
technology that we had at that time.
It was a model where the
computers of that day were big.
They took up large amounts of room,
big air conditioning,
generators and other things
to help keep them alive,
and a big coax cable coming
out of the back that ended
up hooking into the network.
There were lots of people who were
involved in administrating it and
making it all work and dealing
with it when it didn't work right.
It wasn't until the Macintosh
really that networking became
manageable by mere humans.
It was possible to hook up something
very easily using Apple Talk and
hook a couple of computers or a set
of computers and printers and things
together and not worry about things like
IP addresses and domain name registration
or any of that kind of stuff.
It was all about just hooking
the computers together and using
them and taking advantage of
the services that were there.
It was really remarkably easy.
Not terribly fast, but remarkably easy.
Along came the iMac,
and the real key advantage there
was making the experience of
getting on the Internet easy.
Remember the ads of the day?
It was all about how quick you could
get from the box onto the Internet.
If you remember,
the computers of the day,
certainly in the PC world,
you had to deal with going out
and buying a networking card
and dealing with configuring.
I think there were things like
IRQs and all sorts of stuff that
had to be configured and config
files and all sorts of stuff.
The experience that we have has always,
of course,
been about making that experience
easy and something that a user
doesn't have to deal with.
iPhone came around and fundamentally
changed the way we deal with the network.
Up until that point,
things were remarkably static,
but the iPhone has really changed
the way we experience the network.
People take the Internet with them.
It's in their pocket.
They expect that experience.
Certainly with the iPad,
not only do you get that experience,
but you get a very immersive
multimedia experience to go with it.
People expect the ability of streaming
video and being able to deal with
things that are very interactive.
That's all fine and interesting,
but the scope of this
has grown dramatically.
We're now dealing with hundreds of
millions of devices moving quickly
towards billions of devices.
When we started this little
exercise of networking,
it was a few thousand maybe,
hundreds or thousands.
We're now talking hundreds of
millions and billions of devices.
It really proposes some
particularly interesting challenges.
Today,
we're going to focus a little bit on
the technology that all the networking
capability of our systems are based on.
We're going to talk about
CoreOS networking in particular.
This is where all the plumbing
is for networking and all
the core capabilities are.
This foundation is common,
is the same between iOS and Mac OS.
It's actually the same
source code base that we use,
the same engineers.
We all build the same
technology in both these levels.
The things that we're going to talk
about here really apply across the board.
Certainly, the principles do.
First, let's talk a little bit
about what features we've
been adding to Lion and iOS.
We've not really added IPv6.
We actually put IPv6 in back in 10.1,
but you may have noticed,
watched the news over
the past few months,
that we've somehow or another
run out of IPv4 addresses,
or at least kind of at the top level.
The reality is it's not something to
panic about at this particular point,
but it is becoming a bigger and
bigger issue that v4 address space
is really running out very quickly
and that v6 is becoming more
and more important by the day.
You may be aware that tomorrow, in fact,
is v6 day, where a number of sites
on the Internet will be
turning on v6 capability.
It'll be interesting to
see how well that goes,
that experiment.
Again, we added v6 back in 10.1
and added support in iOS for
mobile devices back in iOS 4.
We've added a lot of support for
We've added a lot of updates to this
code base with these releases coming up,
particularly syncing up these code
bases with the latest from Kame and BSD.
There's an enormous amount of
changes that came with that,
support for a number of new features,
things like RFC 506,
which allows for using
router advertisements to be
able to get DNS information,
as well as support for things like
DHCV v6 stateful and stateless.
Stateful is DHCP like
you would expect for v4,
where addresses are
vended out to the device.
These are really only typically used
now in enterprise environments where
they want to manage their devices.
We also support DHCP v6 stateless,
which is just handing out of
the ancillary information,
again, like DNS and other things that are
used to help configure the device.
For v6 configuration for most
people is dealt through the
mechanism of router advertising.
It's an awful lot easier to
deal with v6 configuration,
but we've added ways to integrate
better into the enterprise
and other environments.
For v6 configuration for most
people is dealt through the
mechanism of router advertising.
It's an awful lot easier to
deal with v6 configuration,
but we've added ways to integrate
better into the enterprise
and other environments.
so that you get anonymous connections.
We've put a lot of work in the
plumbing for the system to support v6.
Basically if you're using the
CF socket stream APIs or above,
we'll take advantage of actually
picking the best route to use,
whether v4 or v6,
based on a number of different
statistical analysis things that we do
and performance analysis that we do for
the connections so that we ensure that
we get the best connection v4 or v6.
We don't specifically prioritize
v4 or v6 over the other,
but rather actually look to see
which is the best connection.
Why is this important?
Because one of the challenges that
we see in v6 adoption is that there
are a lot of places where while
you may have local v6 connectivity,
somewhere along the way there's a
tunnel or other mechanisms that are in
place that aren't working very well.
They're either very slow
or they fail completely.
And so using the mechanisms that
we've put into the system now,
we can ensure that the user actually gets
the right experience regardless of the
fact that infrastructure might be broken.
There's also new APIs for
additional socket capabilities
if you're writing to that level
of the system to take advantage
of some V6 specific capabilities.
And frankly,
we're feeling pretty comfortable
about being completely
ready for V6 day tomorrow.
Certainly I encourage you to try
out both Lion and iOS 5 for that.
Another thing that we've been
working on is something we
call Captive Network Support.
Now this is something we actually
added a couple of releases ago to iOS.
A captive network is something very
similar to what you see when you go
to somewhere like Starbucks where
you connect to the Wi-Fi,
you open your web browser,
and it comes up with a sheet
that tells you to click OK to
accept the terms or maybe put in
information in case it's a paid
Wi-Fi hotspot or something like that.
These were designed for the experience
of a laptop where a business user
would go somewhere like a hotel or
somewhere like a hotel and they would
be able to access the information
or somewhere of that nature.
They'd open it up and the first
thing that they would do would
be to go to their web browser.
The reality is with these mobile devices,
the web browser is most likely not the
first connection point to the network.
And the challenge with these
walled garden captive network
environments is that for the user,
if they didn't go to the web browser,
it would just sit there and
wait for them until they did.
So we added the capability into the
system to detect when you're on a
captive network and automatically
make the necessary decisions in terms
of either automatically connecting
or bringing up a web sheet so that
the user can interact as necessary
with the hotspot environment.
We support a number of
different protocols,
Whisper as well as EAP Sim and others,
depending on the
environment that we're in.
And the OS again is involved in
detecting these particular environments
and will remember captive networks that
you've been to before and reconnect
automatically the next time you go there.
Support for this is now on Lion and
brings parity between Lion and iOS.
We also added support
back in iOS 4 for SSL VPN.
There's basically a significant amount of
OS level plumbing support to support this
that we put in and we now have a number
of clients that are available on iOS,
Cisco, Juniper and F5 in particular.
Each of them provides their own
unique vendor specific feature set.
Other clients are available
via the App Store.
This plumbing is now
available on Lion as well.
[Transcript missing]
The area where I think that's most
interesting and certainly applies to
everyone here is in the tool space.
We've added a number of tools for you to
take advantage of to make your network
experience and development better.
One of the first ones is NetTop.
I'm sure all of you are familiar
with using Top at the command line.
You bring it up and you can get
a reasonably good idea of what
processes are running on your system,
potentially how memory is being used,
how Mach ports and
other things like that,
resources are being consumed.
We've ended up creating a tool
for NetTop to be able to do
that kind of analysis as well
for your network experience.
So you bring this up,
it'll show you all the connections
that are currently active,
it'll show you a sense of what kind
of traffic activity is going on,
when the new connections
are being established,
so that you can see in real
time what's going on during
different kinds of operations.
It can be very,
very helpful to you to run NetTop and
then run your application and see what's
actually going on and that the things
that you're expecting to get opened up
and connected to are actually occurring.
Another very important tool is
the Network Link Conditioner.
The Link Conditioner is a tool you run
online which helps simulate real-world
customer environments for networking.
And what it does is it puts in
place basically in line to the
networking stack either delays,
dropouts,
other things to help simulate when
the user is out in the real world.
Typically,
we all have great connections when we're
working and developing our software.
Certainly at Apple,
we have an awesome network.
The challenge is that's really not the
network our end users are dealing with.
Most likely, they're in a situation,
even like here,
where there's a lot of people
competing for a limited resource,
where there may be bad
connectivity or no connectivity.
And that can be very difficult to
deal with when you're writing your
software because you're writing
in this perfect environment.
The Network Link Conditioner
allows you to select through
pre-built profiles things like DSL,
Edge, 3G, and that the apps that then run
during that will behave as though
you were on that kind of network,
either with delays and latency or, again,
packet drops or other things so
that you can make sure that your
application does the right thing.
If you're writing an iOS application,
you can also use this particular
tool in the simulator.
It's a great opportunity to turn on the
Network Link Conditioner and simulate
an Edge or cell phone environment,
run your app in the simulator,
and see what's actually going to
go on when you have situations
like packet drop and others to make
sure that your app deals with those
error conditions appropriately.
Lastly,
we have a tool that we've added for iOS,
which allows you to perform
a remote packet capture.
Basically,
this allows you to run your app
on your iOS device hooked up to a
Lion machine and be able to grab the
packets that your iOS device is seeing
and then analyze them with things like
Wireshark and others to be able to,
again, kind of deal with potential
errors or other challenges
that you might be seeing.
Again, a very,
very helpful tool for being able
to get a better sense of what your
application is actually dealing with.
You can then capture all these packets,
analyze them later,
or analyze them again in real time with
some of the tools that are available.
I encourage you to go to a
session tomorrow which is the
Cross Networking in Depth.
This is tomorrow morning where we'll be
demoing these tools and giving a lot more
information about how to take advantage
of them as well as a number of the other
features that I've been talking about,
additional support for V6, et cetera,
that is part of both Lion and iOS.
I encourage you to go to a
session tomorrow which is the
Cross Networking in Depth.
This is tomorrow morning where we'll be
demoing these tools and giving a lot more
information about how to take advantage
of them as well as a number of the other
features that I've been talking about,
additional support for V6, et cetera,
that is part of both Lion and iOS.
And when you couple that
with the fact that there's,
again,
hundreds of thousands of apps out there
and the fact that the great news is,
is that a significant portion
of them are now network enabled,
that we have to deal with kind
of the change in the way we think
about networking and realize that
mobility is no longer the exception
to the way networking is done,
but it's the norm.
It's the reality that we
have to deal with every day.
Again,
just to kind of put it back in context,
networking used to be very static.
The original design of our networking
stacks that we all know and love
were built on machines that were big,
that didn't get moved,
where system administrators
configured everything,
where you had complete control
of your networking environment.
And also, you probably may remember
that in that particular time,
there wasn't DHCP.
So when you added a
device to your network,
you had to find the guy who knew what
the available IP addresses were and
what all the magic numbers were that you
had to put in your configuration files.
At best, it would take you quite a
few minutes to be able to put
together a network configuration,
but most likely, if you didn't know what
the information was,
you had no hope.
Again, everything used to be static.
Certainly wasn't mobile.
You're not about to put
a VAX in your pocket.
The reality is of today though that
the network is no longer static.
Nothing is static anymore.
The configuration changes can
assume to be changed at any time.
Signal strength, cell availability,
Wi-Fi ability, whether you're in a public
or private Wi-Fi hotspot,
or whether you're connected to VPN.
These are all part of what we deal with
now and what really poses the interesting
challenges that we have to deal with.
The goal for us,
both us Apple and us as the community
that provides applications and
services to our collective customers,
is that we need to preserve this
illusion of magic for networking.
I'm sure you all are familiar
with this particular quote,
but this is the challenge
that is before us.
Our job is to make all that complexity of
networking seem like magic to the user.
So let's talk a little bit about some
key principles that you should think
about and put into play as you're working
on your next great app or you're making
the next version for iOS 5 or Lion.
First thing to consider,
and particularly given some
of the things we talked about
yesterday with services for iCloud,
is that you really want to write to
the highest level APIs that you can.
You get an enormous amount
of benefit by doing so,
by effectively future-proofing
your application.
You allow the framework and those
level of systems to deal with the
complexities of the network itself.
So one of the benefits you get,
for example,
today is that you shouldn't have to
deal with whether or not you're on
an IPv4 network or an IPv6 network.
If you write to the right
level of the system,
CF network or above,
and you don't make any assumptions,
which you shouldn't be doing,
you'll get this automatically,
and as the Internet continues
to make this transition,
you'll get it for free.
Don't depend on...
Transport level details.
The reality is that you don't know if
the user is going to be connected to
a Wi-Fi or 3G or on a laptop whether
they're on a wired connection or not.
Don't ever assume anything about
those particular interfaces.
The reality is they may change or you may
be fooled into what actually is going on.
I'll give you an example.
We happen to have shuttle buses that
are provided for us as Apple employees
for getting around the Bay Area.
One of the benefits is there
happens to be Wi-Fi on the bus
that we can use and it's all great.
From a device perspective,
I'm connecting to a local
Wi-Fi that's really fast.
What I don't realize from a device
perspective is right behind it
is a 3G connection and all those
people on the bus are sharing it.
So if I made an assumption that I'm
on Wi-Fi and I have a great connection
and what's happening is somewhere
downstream I've actually got something
that bottlenecks the connection,
you're going to be completely fooled.
Don't assume the
transport means anything.
The other benefit of writing to
the highest level API here is
that you automatically get the
benefits of the framework and the
infrastructure improvements that we do.
We did an awful lot in iOS 5 and in Lion.
Believe me,
we've got more on the plate that we
are trying to deal with because of
the way that this space is growing.
And we want you to be able
to take advantage of it.
And writing to the highest level you can,
you'll get a lot for free.
We do acknowledge, however,
that one size does not fit all.
That you're going to have applications
where you have to deal with low-level
APIs and low-level connections.
Be aware, though,
that you're going to have to deal
with some of the challenges and
complexities that come with it.
One thing to consider is don't
assume that the network is free.
These days the user could
be connected anywhere.
So they're 3G, they may be roaming,
they may be in an environment
where they're being charged by
either bandwidth or by time.
The Wi-Fi certainly could be fee-based
if they're in a hotspot environment.
They could be roaming.
So any number of these
situations can occur.
Don't assume that it's free and
therefore don't abuse the connection.
Take advantage of the fact that
assuming that this costs money and
that you should really try and narrow
your usage model as much as you can,
but still give a great experience.
But also be aware that power
isn't free here either.
That when you use and
make a network connection,
particularly an iOS device,
you're firing up potentially a
radio that's consuming battery time.
The network is also a limited resource.
I'm sure people in the big hall yesterday
or today where you're in a large room,
we're all trying to share
one wireless network in here.
And the reality is it's
a very limited resource.
If everybody just
assumes they own it all,
they're going to be in for a
nasty surprise and probably
a pretty bad experience.
So think about the fact that from
the user that they're dealing
in situations like this as well.
Consider the ways you can
compress your information.
How you can take,
instead of small packet, lots and lots.
Lots of little small packets going out.
How you can cluster your
information in transmissions so
that they're much more efficient.
You should also consider
caching things intelligently.
If you can, possibly don't reload,
download the same information
every time you connect to the
server or you connect to a service.
And really consider performance as
a key part of the experience that
you have for your applications.
Particularly, understand the trade-off
between bandwidth and latency.
Depending on your...
Depending on your application,
frankly, I think in most cases,
latency is actually the most important
thing that you'll want to deal with.
Latency is about responsiveness.
It's how quick can I get the
information there and back
and be able to react to it.
Bandwidth certainly is important,
particularly when, for example,
you're streaming media, other things.
Certainly,
bandwidth is a great thing to be
able to make sure that you can
get the best experience there.
But that is not what most
of us tend to deal with.
And so make sure that when
you're writing... When you're
writing an application,
you're considering the impacts
of latency in your design model.
And then beware of what
we call buffer bloat.
What we're seeing in terms of the
experience on the internet as things
grow is that cascading buffers,
basically it's really
cheap to add a few K,
a few megabyte of buffers at various
levels of the infrastructure.
Each of them add, frankly,
add latency and other delay into
the experience of the network.
And certainly there's not a
lot you can do about that.
And if you're interested, by the way,
in learning more about this,
I encourage you to go to
bufferbloat.net and read up on it.
But there are things that you
can do in your application to
not have the same experience.
Buffers are great,
but they are not the answer
to your performance problems.
Most of the time you can over-buffer
your applications and then end up
creating increased latency and,
again, reduce the experience,
the interactive experience
that you're having.
One of the things that we've added
to iOS 5 and Lion is mechanisms to
optimally allocate buffers as far as your
TCP connections for the best performance.
We encourage you, again,
if you're writing the higher level APIs,
you'll get a lot of this benefit.
But as well, when you're designing
your network applications,
think about the impact of putting
lots of buffers between the user
experience and your network experience.
Deal with network errors.
Again, back in the day when
everything was very static,
things didn't change an awful lot
and you could kind of get away
with not worrying about this.
It was a rare event.
I can walk five feet down a
hallway and my network experience
will change dramatically.
And the reality is that connections
that I have are going to go down,
packets are going to get dropped,
timeouts are going to occur.
This is just the reality
of networking these days.
So you've got to be able
to deal with these cases.
Intelligently.
Make sure as well, for example,
that you're dealing with situations on
iOS that you're backgrounding correctly.
Because those will potentially create
error conditions as well if you
don't shut down things that you can.
When you come back,
or if you do come back,
you may find your connections have been
shut down for you in order to be able
to deal with system resource issues.
From the user's perspective,
they don't want to know
about all these errors.
Except in the rare cases.
Where they've explicitly made a request
to do something and you can't deliver it.
They shouldn't know
about all these details.
Hide problems in the
network whenever possible.
Deal with them yourself
and automatically.
[Transcript missing]
Right to the highest level APIs,
you'll get a lot for free.
But if you have code that is
written to low level APIs,
you need to make sure that you're
not making assumptions about address
types or sizes because these days
you may get either or multiple.
If you're dealing yourself
with DNS resolution,
be prepared for the fact that
you're going to get multiple
address responses back.
You're going to get potentially
multiple V4 and multiple V6
resolutions for a given DNS entry.
And make sure that you're applying
the right logic for determining them.
Again, we encourage you to use the higher
level APIs and we have other mechanisms
that you can use to even make this
experience a little bit better.
But be aware that these are the kinds of
things you're going to have to deal with.
And if you have open source or
libraries that you're dependent
on that are network based,
don't assume that they're V6 capable.
If they're code that you have,
you may want to go back and look at them.
Chances are they may be a library
you've been using for years.
The rest of your app may all be ready,
but you may have one little library
that you're dependent on that isn't.
And this is something that
you need to be going to make a
particular point of the test.
Lastly, I really encourage you to
actually build a v6-only network.
You can use a number of solutions
today to be able to bridge
v6 into v4 backbone networks,
but at least so that your current
application is dealing in a v6
environment and that the right thing
happens and that you're comfortable
it's going to work when the user
deals with those kinds of situations.
Also, if you are providing a service
or you're looking for services,
Bonjour is definitely the way to go here.
It's a dynamic world again.
No one ever remembers an IP address,
although I can certainly remember
the time where I would have
to memorize my v4 addresses.
There's no way in the world I can
possibly memorize an IPv6 address.
They're big, gnarly,
and there's just no way in the world
you're going to be able to do that.
Thank you.
Because Bonjour itself is
agnostic to the transport.
And then on top of all of that on Mac OS,
you might want to be aware that there's
this mechanism called the sleep proxy,
which allows you to also be
a good power citizen as well.
If you have a service, for example,
you know, if there's file sharing
or screen sharing,
but if you have a service that
you're providing for Bonjour,
you can still allow the machine
to actually go fully to sleep.
And the sleep proxy mechanism is
something that basically takes advantage
of an Apple TV or an airport base
station to make note of the services
that your device will provide and
wake it up using wake on LAN or wake
on wireless capability as needed when
that particular service is requested.
Again, not only make sure that
the user can find things,
but that we don't have to keep these
devices running and hot 24 hours a day.
Which leads right into the fact
that power is actually as important,
if not more important than performance.
Maybe great that the user
gets this great experience,
but if the device only
lasts a few minutes,
it really doesn't do any good.
One of the reasons that we've pushed so
hard for the experience for things like
the way applications are backgrounded and
others is because the user expects that
the device is going to last all day long.
And we have to make sure that
that experience is preserved.
So.
The fact that you're dealing with
a portable device means that you're
dealing with batteries and that when
you use the network that you are very
possibly either powering up the radio
or radios or keeping them hot and they
certainly draw an awful lot of power.
And that's fine if you're again,
the point here is to have
a great network experience,
but there are things
that you can do to help.
For example,
don't trickle data out over time.
Little bits of data, you know,
spread over time means that you're.
You're effectively keeping the radio
hot or active constantly and if
possible burst your data together,
reduce the amount of times that
you need to bring up the radio.
You really have no way of being
able to control of one that happens,
but you can manage the way you deal with
your traffic and connections and such
to help let the system do that better.
Take advantage of push notifications.
Pulling the server every little bit is
not always the right answer to do things.
There are ways to do this
completely asynchronously and
not keep radios and things hot.
Take advantage of things like
sleep proxy on on your desktop and
laptop devices for services that
you might be making available.
But reachability APIs also
play a big role here.
There are ways that you can use
that to determine both connectivity
and stuff to make sure that you
know your experience is good and to
give hints to the system so that it
knows how it's being used as well.
This leads right into.
Again, dealing with the fact that
change is going to happen.
It's a reality of the environment
that we're in the number of the
interfaces that are available,
whether you're cellular network
is connected with your wife
I connected or whether both are
your signal strength and quality.
These things are going to change.
Assume that in your design space.
One thing that you can do to kind
of help yourself here is because
you have need to assume that
there's going to be a lot of change.
Don't leave connections
open longer than you need to
because it's very problematic.
It's very possible that the connection
that you had is going to get dropped
because the connection actually changed
so long lived connections can be a
problem unless you're ready to deal
with the implications of a change.
And again,
use the reachability APIs here.
It'll help you and notify you when
there are changes that are occurring
in the system when you've tried to
make a connection to a particular
service and that interface is down.
It can let you know that the
interface is now available.
Our connections are possible.
So take advantage of the.
So that it's not again in the user's
face and that your app just deals
automatically with these situations.
If you do things using the facilities
and services that are in the system,
you really as an app developer,
even though I've listed
a lot of challenges,
there's actually a small amount
that you really should have to do.
There's a lot of the
system will do for you.
Take advantage of that.
Let it do as much of the work as it can.
The key to most of this
is not making assumptions.
The only assumption.
The only assumption that you can make
the only constant in life is change.
It's all about networking.
Everything that we do,
the experience that we provide
our users is about giving them
this sense of connectedness.
It's about being able to provide
network services and capabilities
as part of your applications
and add value to your customers.
They expect a connected
experience these days,
regardless of the kind
of app that you have.
So be prepared for dealing
with the changes that are
part of a highly mobile world.
Write your app assuming that
absolutely nothing is static
when it comes to the network.
Assume everything will change.
And then test.
Take advantage of the network
link conditioner while
you're writing your code,
while you're developing your application
to test during the design phase.
Test in real world environments.
And make sure that you create artificial
environments that will test the kind
of failures that you know are coming.
And it's all about, again,
helping keep that illusion
of magic for networking.
We all know in this room
that networking is hard.
It's complicated and it's
getting more complicated given
all the challenges that exist.
But there's a lot that we can do
to keep this illusion of simplicity
and we have got to do it together.
So with that,
I want to point you to an evangelist
if you've got more questions,
Paul Danbold, and certainly the various
forums and services,
websites.
But more importantly,
there's a couple of sessions
I really encourage you to go to.
Tomorrow there's a Core OS Networking
In-Depth where we'll get into some
of the tools and new APIs in more
detail and give you some demos.
And as well,
on Thursday there's a session on
Bonjour and how to take advantage of
network discovery and connectivity.
With that,
I thank you for coming and hope you
have a great rest of the conference.